ARTICLE 3 (BEFORE FORMATTING)

Jeremy hunt wants nuclear power classed as sustainable: is it?
Uk chancellor has launched consultation to classify nuclear as environmentally sustainable
jeremy hunt has kickstarted a fresh push into nuclear power, which he hopes will provide a quarter of britains electricity by 2050. In his budget speech,
the chancellor announced a competition to co-fund small nuclear plants and hopes a new delivery body, great british nuclear, will ease the creation of
nuclear projects. He also launched a consultation to classify nuclear as environmentally sustainable. But is it?
Does britain need nuclear power?
Hunt follows in the footsteps of the former prime minister boris johnson in making bold statements on the importance of nuclear. Britains nuclear power
stations date back to the 1950s and are now ageing, with just one, sizewell b, still scheduled to be running after 2028. Last week, frances edf which
operates the stations said it had extended the life of two other plants.
Proponents argue that nuclear provides a baseload of power that can be relied on, whereas renewable energy such as wind and solar is dependent on weather
conditions, meaning it cannot always help match supply with demand. There are also high hopes for nuclear fusion as an energy source, but this has not
been commercialised.
Why is nuclear being reclassified?
To attract private investment. The consultation is on the taxonomy or financial classification system of energy. This is important as there have been
a proliferation of funds dedicated to environmental, social and governance (esg) investments springing up in global financial markets in recent years.
These funds promise their investors that their cash is going towards social good, such as tackling the climate crisis. Hunt was also under pressure to
respond to the inflation reduction act, joe bidens $369bn climate subsidy package.
Is britain the first country to do this?
No. The european commission decided last year to label nuclear as a green investment. The eus parliament said the taxonomy change aimed to boost green
investments and prevent greenwashing. However, the decision has faced legal challenges by groups including greenpeace.
Will it make a difference?
Nuclear projects cost tens of billions of pounds to develop and build, so smoothing the path to secure investment is seen as crucial. In the uk, the government
has tasked bankers with finding funders for sizewell c, in partnership with edf, after easing china general nuclear out of the project over security fears.
The government has committed 700m to the suffolk plant, which could cost more than 30bn to build. Its sister site, hinkley point c in somerset, has been
beset with delays and cost overruns. Senior industry sources said the taxonomy change would help in the hunt for sizewell cs funders.
The backers of small modular reactors, including a programme developed by rolls-royce, will also hope to receive significant investment. Rolls-royces
aim is to create a fleet of smaller, factory-built nuclear plants across britain.
Is nuclear energy renewable?
Uranium, the element used in nuclear power, is a finite resource, which is mined from the ground and not considered renewable. However, it can be argued
that, as nuclear power stations use a very small amount of fuel to generate the same amount of electricity, they are preferable to gas-fired power stations,
which are expected to be around for many years.
Is it really green?
Advocates of nuclear claim it should be seen as a green energy source as it does not release harmful emissions into the air. National grid says that the
lifecycle emissions emissions resulting from every stage of the production process are also significantly lower than in fossil fuel-based generation.
Hunt said on wednesday that increasing nuclear capacity is vital to meet our net zero obligations. However, there are questions over how useful nuclear
will realistically be in this mission. As projects take years to build sizewell c could be finished by the mid-2030s at a push it can be argued that pursuing
the project could prove a drain on government and financial resources, which could be better spent on rapidly scaling up britains wind and solar capacity
and improving electricity networks and storage. An effective ban on onshore wind developments remains in place.
Nuclear detractors also say nuclear cannot be seen as sustainable given the concerns over the potential environmental hazards in the long term. Shutting
down sites such as sellafield, in north-west england, will take generations and involves a painstaking process of carefully managing ageing buildings
to ensure radioactive waste is not mishandled. In finland, a huge effort is under way to bury waste in concrete deep underground.
It has also been argued that as nuclear plants need water for cooling so are often built near the coast rising sea levels could make some projects obsolete
before building work is completed.
That is not the only concern, is it?
No. The history of the nuclear industry has shown an oscillating interest from governments and investors, influenced by a series of devastating incidents
including three mile island in 1979, chornobyl in 1986 and fukushima in 2011. Russias attack on zaporizhzhia, europes biggest nuclear plant, in ukraine,
has again raised concerns over a nuclear incident.

TO LOWER CASE
jeremy hunt wants nuclear power classed as sustainable: is it?
uk chancellor has launched consultation to classify nuclear as environmentally sustainable
jeremy hunt has kickstarted a fresh push into nuclear power, which he hopes will provide a quarter of britains electricity by 2050. in his budget speech,
the chancellor announced a competition to co-fund small nuclear plants and hopes a new delivery body, great british nuclear, will ease the creation of
nuclear projects. he also launched a consultation to classify nuclear as environmentally sustainable. but is it?
does britain need nuclear power?
hunt follows in the footsteps of the former prime minister boris johnson in making bold statements on the importance of nuclear. britains nuclear power
stations date back to the 1950s and are now ageing, with just one, sizewell b, still scheduled to be running after 2028. last week, frances edf which
operates the stations said it had extended the life of two other plants.
proponents argue that nuclear provides a baseload of power that can be relied on, whereas renewable energy such as wind and solar is dependent on weather
conditions, meaning it cannot always help match supply with demand. there are also high hopes for nuclear fusion as an energy source, but this has not
been commercialised.
why is nuclear being reclassified?
to attract private investment. the consultation is on the taxonomy or financial classification system of energy. this is important as there have been
a proliferation of funds dedicated to environmental, social and governance (esg) investments springing up in global financial markets in recent years.
these funds promise their investors that their cash is going towards social good, such as tackling the climate crisis. hunt was also under pressure to
respond to the inflation reduction act, joe bidens $369bn climate subsidy package.
is britain the first country to do this?
no. the european commission decided last year to label nuclear as a green investment. the eus parliament said the taxonomy change aimed to boost green
investments and prevent greenwashing. however, the decision has faced legal challenges by groups including greenpeace.
will it make a difference?
nuclear projects cost tens of billions of pounds to develop and build, so smoothing the path to secure investment is seen as crucial. in the uk, the government
has tasked bankers with finding funders for sizewell c, in partnership with edf, after easing china general nuclear out of the project over security fears.
the government has committed 700m to the suffolk plant, which could cost more than 30bn to build. its sister site, hinkley point c in somerset, has been
beset with delays and cost overruns. senior industry sources said the taxonomy change would help in the hunt for sizewell cs funders.
the backers of small modular reactors, including a programme developed by rolls-royce, will also hope to receive significant investment. rolls-royces
aim is to create a fleet of smaller, factory-built nuclear plants across britain.
is nuclear energy renewable?
uranium, the element used in nuclear power, is a finite resource, which is mined from the ground and not considered renewable. however, it can be argued
that, as nuclear power stations use a very small amount of fuel to generate the same amount of electricity, they are preferable to gas-fired power stations,
which are expected to be around for many years.
is it really green?
advocates of nuclear claim it should be seen as a green energy source as it does not release harmful emissions into the air. national grid says that the
lifecycle emissions emissions resulting from every stage of the production process are also significantly lower than in fossil fuel-based generation.
hunt said on wednesday that increasing nuclear capacity is vital to meet our net zero obligations. however, there are questions over how useful nuclear
will realistically be in this mission. as projects take years to build sizewell c could be finished by the mid-2030s at a push it can be argued that pursuing
the project could prove a drain on government and financial resources, which could be better spent on rapidly scaling up britains wind and solar capacity
and improving electricity networks and storage. an effective ban on onshore wind developments remains in place.
nuclear detractors also say nuclear cannot be seen as sustainable given the concerns over the potential environmental hazards in the long term. shutting
down sites such as sellafield, in north-west england, will take generations and involves a painstaking process of carefully managing ageing buildings
to ensure radioactive waste is not mishandled. in finland, a huge effort is under way to bury waste in concrete deep underground.
it has also been argued that as nuclear plants need water for cooling so are often built near the coast rising sea levels could make some projects obsolete
before building work is completed.
that is not the only concern, is it?
no. the history of the nuclear industry has shown an oscillating interest from governments and investors, influenced by a series of devastating incidents
including three mile island in 1979, chornobyl in 1986 and fukushima in 2011. russias attack on zaporizhzhia, europes biggest nuclear plant, in ukraine,
has again raised concerns over a nuclear incident.

TOKENIZED
jeremy hunt wants nuclear power classed as sustainable  is it
uk chancellor has launched consultation to classify nuclear as environmentally sustainable
jeremy hunt has kickstarted a fresh push into nuclear power  which he hopes will provide a quarter of britains electricity by       in his budget speech
the chancellor announced a competition to co fund small nuclear plants and hopes a new delivery body  great british nuclear  will ease the creation of
nuclear projects  he also launched a consultation to classify nuclear as environmentally sustainable  but is it
does britain need nuclear power
hunt follows in the footsteps of the former prime minister boris johnson in making bold statements on the importance of nuclear  britains nuclear power
stations date back to the     s and are now ageing  with just one  sizewell b  still scheduled to be running after       last week  frances edf which
operates the stations said it had extended the life of two other plants
proponents argue that nuclear provides a baseload of power that can be relied on  whereas renewable energy such as wind and solar is dependent on weather
conditions  meaning it cannot always help match supply with demand  there are also high hopes for nuclear fusion as an energy source  but this has not
been commercialised
why is nuclear being reclassified
to attract private investment  the consultation is on the taxonomy or financial classification system of energy  this is important as there have been
a proliferation of funds dedicated to environmental  social and governance  esg  investments springing up in global financial markets in recent years
these funds promise their investors that their cash is going towards social good  such as tackling the climate crisis  hunt was also under pressure to
respond to the inflation reduction act  joe bidens     bn climate subsidy package
is britain the first country to do this
no  the european commission decided last year to label nuclear as a green investment  the eus parliament said the taxonomy change aimed to boost green
investments and prevent greenwashing  however  the decision has faced legal challenges by groups including greenpeace
will it make a difference
nuclear projects cost tens of billions of pounds to develop and build  so smoothing the path to secure investment is seen as crucial  in the uk  the government
has tasked bankers with finding funders for sizewell c  in partnership with edf  after easing china general nuclear out of the project over security fears
the government has committed    m to the suffolk plant  which could cost more than   bn to build  its sister site  hinkley point c in somerset  has been
beset with delays and cost overruns  senior industry sources said the taxonomy change would help in the hunt for sizewell cs funders
the backers of small modular reactors  including a programme developed by rolls royce  will also hope to receive significant investment  rolls royces
aim is to create a fleet of smaller  factory built nuclear plants across britain
is nuclear energy renewable
uranium  the element used in nuclear power  is a finite resource  which is mined from the ground and not considered renewable  however  it can be argued
that  as nuclear power stations use a very small amount of fuel to generate the same amount of electricity  they are preferable to gas fired power stations
which are expected to be around for many years
is it really green
advocates of nuclear claim it should be seen as a green energy source as it does not release harmful emissions into the air  national grid says that the
lifecycle emissions emissions resulting from every stage of the production process are also significantly lower than in fossil fuel based generation
hunt said on wednesday that increasing nuclear capacity is vital to meet our net zero obligations  however  there are questions over how useful nuclear
will realistically be in this mission  as projects take years to build sizewell c could be finished by the mid     s at a push it can be argued that pursuing
the project could prove a drain on government and financial resources  which could be better spent on rapidly scaling up britains wind and solar capacity
and improving electricity networks and storage  an effective ban on onshore wind developments remains in place
nuclear detractors also say nuclear cannot be seen as sustainable given the concerns over the potential environmental hazards in the long term  shutting
down sites such as sellafield  in north west england  will take generations and involves a painstaking process of carefully managing ageing buildings
to ensure radioactive waste is not mishandled  in finland  a huge effort is under way to bury waste in concrete deep underground
it has also been argued that as nuclear plants need water for cooling so are often built near the coast rising sea levels could make some projects obsolete
before building work is completed
that is not the only concern  is it
no  the history of the nuclear industry has shown an oscillating interest from governments and investors  influenced by a series of devastating incidents
including three mile island in       chornobyl in      and fukushima in       russias attack on zaporizhzhia  europes biggest nuclear plant  in ukraine
has again raised concerns over a nuclear incident

REMOVED DUPPLICATES
jeremy  hunt  wants  nuclear  power  classed  as  sustainable  is  it  uk  chancellor  has  launched  consultation  to  classify  environmentally  kickstarted
 a  fresh  push  into  which  he  hopes  will  provide  quarter  of  britains  electricity  by  in  his  budget  speech  the  announced  competition
co  fund  small  plants  and  new  delivery  body  great  british  ease  creation  projects  also  but  does  britain  need  follows  footsteps  former
 prime  minister  boris  johnson  making  bold  statements  on  importance  stations  date  back  s  are  now  ageing  with  just  one  sizewell  b  still
 scheduled  be  running  after  last  week  frances  edf  operates  said  had  extended  life  two  other  proponents  argue  that  provides  baseload
 can  relied  whereas  renewable  energy  such  wind  solar  dependent  weather  conditions  meaning  cannot  always  help  match  supply  demand  there
 high  for  fusion  an  source  this  not  been  commercialised  why  being  reclassified  attract  private  investment  taxonomy  or  financial  classification
 system  important  have  proliferation  funds  dedicated  environmental  social  governance  esg  investments  springing  up  global  markets  recent
 years  these  promise  their  investors  cash  going  towards  good  tackling  climate  crisis  was  under  pressure  respond  inflation  reduction
act  joe  bidens  bn  subsidy  package  first  country  do  no  european  commission  decided  year  label  green  eus  parliament  change  aimed  boost
 prevent  greenwashing  however  decision  faced  legal  challenges  groups  including  greenpeace  make  difference  cost  tens  billions  pounds  develop
 build  so  smoothing  path  secure  seen  crucial  government  tasked  bankers  finding  funders  c  partnership  easing  china  general  out  project
 over  security  fears  committed  m  suffolk  plant  could  more  than  its  sister  site  hinkley  point  somerset  beset  delays  overruns  senior
 industry  sources  would  cs  backers  modular  reactors  programme  developed  rolls  royce  hope  receive  significant  royces  aim  create  fleet
 smaller  factory  built  across  uranium  element  used  finite  resource  mined  from  ground  considered  argued  use  very  amount  fuel  generate
 same  they  preferable  gas  fired  expected  around  many  really  advocates  claim  should  release  harmful  emissions  air  national  grid  says
 lifecycle  resulting  every  stage  production  process  significantly  lower  fossil  based  generation  wednesday  increasing  capacity  vital  meet
 our  net  zero  obligations  questions  how  useful  realistically  mission  take  finished  mid  at  pursuing  prove  drain  resources  better  spent
 rapidly  scaling  improving  networks  storage  effective  ban  onshore  developments  remains  place  detractors  say  given  concerns  potential  hazards
 long  term  shutting  down  sites  sellafield  north  west  england  generations  involves  painstaking  carefully  managing  buildings  ensure  radioactive
 waste  mishandled  finland  huge  effort  way  bury  concrete  deep  underground  water  cooling  often  near  coast  rising  sea  levels  some  obsolete
 before  building  work  completed  only  concern  history  shown  oscillating  interest  governments  influenced  series  devastating  incidents  three
 mile  island  chornobyl  fukushima  russias  attack  zaporizhzhia  europes  biggest  ukraine  again  raised  incident