ARTICLE2 (BEFORE FORMATTING)

Leaks from Minnesota nuclear power plant raise safety fears across US
Leaks were contained and posed no danger, official reports say, but past disasters continue to cause fears of power source
In December, Janica Jammes started a microgreens business in the basement of her home in Big Lake, Minnesota, just across the river from Xcel Energy’s
nuclear plant in Monticello.
At least once each day, she uses water from her well to nourish the plant trays. She delivers her product to customers within a 10-mile radius and says
the business has been a success.
But now she worries that her water could be contaminated by a leak of about 400,000 gallons of radioactive water that occurred in November at the plant,
which is about 40 miles north-west of Minneapolis.
Moreover, Jammes is upset that the company did not alert the public about the leak until March – and then detected a second leak, which the company described
as smaller than the first one.
“We don’t know for sure if” side-effects from the leaks “will happen or when anything will happen but just the lack of transparency is very concerning”,
said Jammes, a 36-year-old mother of four.
While Xcel Energy representatives have said the leaks did not affect local drinking water or pose a safety threat to residents, residents such as Jammes
want more answers from the company.
Independent nuclear energy experts agree that the company should have been more transparent, but they say that based on reports from state and federal
agencies, they also do not think the leaks pose a health risk to residents or that the incidents will serve as a significant setback to efforts to promote
the carbon-free power source in the US.
“This leak, even though it was contained and poses no danger”, according to the official reports, “it should be used as some sort of wake-up call”, said
Najmedin Meshkati, an engineering professor who specializes in nuclear safety at the University of Southern California.
While some scientists see increasing nuclear energy as a crucial, safe way to reducing carbon emissions and increasing the country’s energy independence,
the disasters at the Chernobyl, Three Mile Island and Fukushima nuclear power plants continue to cause fears of the power source.
“Nuclear is the only clean energy sector that has the capacity to” transition away from fossil fuels “on a large scale”, said Charlyne Smith, a senior
nuclear energy analyst at the Breakthrough Institute, an energy thinktank. “It is an industry that is highly scrutinized compared to other industries,
and I think the Nuclear Regulatory Commission does a really good job at ensuring that safety is something that is practiced in the industry.”
Even though Xcel did not announce the leak publicly, they notified the Regulatory Commission, which is a federal agency, and the state and in November,
according to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. The company reported that about 400,000 gallons of water containing tritium leaked from a pipe at
the facility.
The regulators concluded that the spill had not reached the Mississippi River or contaminated drinking water sources near the plant.
“While we immediately informed state and federal agencies, with no immediate safety risk, we focused on investigating the situation and containing the
affected water in concert with our regulatory agencies,” Kevin Coss, an Xcel Energy spokesperson, stated in an email to the Guardian. “Making the announcement
when we did allowed us to provide the public a more accurate and complete understanding of the leak and our plan to resolve it.”
Smith said she agreed that the leak did not pose a significant safety risk but “learning about it months after really doesn’t help the industry”.
After the announcement, Xcel held two open houses about the leaks. The company also shut the plant down after discovering the second leak but said it
would reopen this week.
Jammes was among hundreds of people to attend the meetings. She and others said they were frustrated that there was no presentation about the leaks and
that company representatives just stood at tables and answered only some of attendees’ questions.
“It was just a quick question and answer sort of thing, like if you have questions, then we’ll try to answer them, but it was very much: you’re going
to hear what we want you to hear,” Jammes said.
She wants to know why the pipe broke and what Xcel will do to prevent such accidents.
Michael Voll, a 60-year-old warehouse associate, also criticized the company’s approach at the meetings. He has lived in Monticello for most his life
and said Xcel, which opened the plant in 1971, has benefited the local economy.
“You didn’t have to come from a nuclear submarine. You could go out there, and if your uncle or your dad worked there, you probably were going to get
a job,” Voll said.
He also remains a supporter of nuclear energy and has never feared the plant.
But after the leaks and the public meetings, he said his trust in Xcel “is way down”.
Xcel sent the pipe that leaked to an independent group, where experts are studying it to determine what caused it to fail, Coss, the Xcel spokesperson
stated. “The results will help us understand whether there are other potential steps we need to take at the plant,” he wrote.
The company also will conduct a “thorough inspection” of the plant while it’s offline for refueling this month, Coss added. Xcel “will work to maintain”
the community’s trust, Coss wrote, “by thoroughly cleaning up the leaked tritium and providing prompt updates if anything about the situation changes”.

LOWERCASE

leaks from minnesota nuclear power plant raise safety fears across us
leaks were contained and posed no danger, official reports say, but past disasters continue to cause fears of power source
in december, janica jammes started a microgreens business in the basement of her home in big lake, minnesota, just across the river from xcel energy’s
nuclear plant in monticello.
at least once each day, she uses water from her well to nourish the plant trays. she delivers her product to customers within a 10-mile radius and says
the business has been a success.
but now she worries that her water could be contaminated by a leak of about 400,000 gallons of radioactive water that occurred in november at the plant,
which is about 40 miles north-west of minneapolis.
moreover, jammes is upset that the company did not alert the public about the leak until march – and then detected a second leak, which the company described
as smaller than the first one.
“we don’t know for sure if” side-effects from the leaks “will happen or when anything will happen but just the lack of transparency is very concerning”,
said jammes, a 36-year-old mother of four.
while xcel energy representatives have said the leaks did not affect local drinking water or pose a safety threat to residents, residents such as jammes
want more answers from the company.
independent nuclear energy experts agree that the company should have been more transparent, but they say that based on reports from state and federal
agencies, they also do not think the leaks pose a health risk to residents or that the incidents will serve as a significant setback to efforts to promote
the carbon-free power source in the us.
“this leak, even though it was contained and poses no danger”, according to the official reports, “it should be used as some sort of wake-up call”, said
najmedin meshkati, an engineering professor who specializes in nuclear safety at the university of southern california.
while some scientists see increasing nuclear energy as a crucial, safe way to reducing carbon emissions and increasing the country’s energy independence,
the disasters at the chernobyl, three mile island and fukushima nuclear power plants continue to cause fears of the power source.
“nuclear is the only clean energy sector that has the capacity to” transition away from fossil fuels “on a large scale”, said charlyne smith, a senior
nuclear energy analyst at the breakthrough institute, an energy thinktank. “it is an industry that is highly scrutinized compared to other industries,
and i think the nuclear regulatory commission does a really good job at ensuring that safety is something that is practiced in the industry.”
even though xcel did not announce the leak publicly, they notified the regulatory commission, which is a federal agency, and the state and in november,
according to the minnesota pollution control agency. the company reported that about 400,000 gallons of water containing tritium leaked from a pipe at
the facility.
the regulators concluded that the spill had not reached the mississippi river or contaminated drinking water sources near the plant.
“while we immediately informed state and federal agencies, with no immediate safety risk, we focused on investigating the situation and containing the
affected water in concert with our regulatory agencies,” kevin coss, an xcel energy spokesperson, stated in an email to the guardian. “making the announcement
when we did allowed us to provide the public a more accurate and complete understanding of the leak and our plan to resolve it.”
smith said she agreed that the leak did not pose a significant safety risk but “learning about it months after really doesn’t help the industry”.
after the announcement, xcel held two open houses about the leaks. the company also shut the plant down after discovering the second leak but said it
would reopen this week.
jammes was among hundreds of people to attend the meetings. she and others said they were frustrated that there was no presentation about the leaks and
that company representatives just stood at tables and answered only some of attendees’ questions.
“it was just a quick question and answer sort of thing, like if you have questions, then we’ll try to answer them, but it was very much: you’re going
to hear what we want you to hear,” jammes said.
she wants to know why the pipe broke and what xcel will do to prevent such accidents.
michael voll, a 60-year-old warehouse associate, also criticized the company’s approach at the meetings. he has lived in monticello for most his life
and said xcel, which opened the plant in 1971, has benefited the local economy.
“you didn’t have to come from a nuclear submarine. you could go out there, and if your uncle or your dad worked there, you probably were going to get
a job,” voll said.
he also remains a supporter of nuclear energy and has never feared the plant.
but after the leaks and the public meetings, he said his trust in xcel “is way down”.
xcel sent the pipe that leaked to an independent group, where experts are studying it to determine what caused it to fail, coss, the xcel spokesperson
stated. “the results will help us understand whether there are other potential steps we need to take at the plant,” he wrote.
the company also will conduct a “thorough inspection” of the plant while it’s offline for refueling this month, coss added. xcel “will work to maintain”
the community’s trust, coss wrote, “by thoroughly cleaning up the leaked tritium and providing prompt updates if anything about the situation changes”.


TOKENIZE(SPLITTING USING SPACES, PUNCTUATION, NUMBERS)

leaks from minnesota nuclear power plant raise safety fears across us
leaks were contained and posed no danger  official reports say  but past disasters continue to cause fears of power source
in december  janica jammes started a microgreens business in the basement of her home in big lake  minnesota  just across the river from xcel energy s
nuclear plant in monticello
at least once each day  she uses water from her well to nourish the plant trays  she delivers her product to customers within a    mile radius and says
the business has been a success
but now she worries that her water could be contaminated by a leak of about         gallons of radioactive water that occurred in november at the plant
which is about    miles north west of minneapolis
moreover  jammes is upset that the company did not alert the public about the leak until march  and then detected a second leak  which the company described
as smaller than the first one
 we don t know for sure if  side effects from the leaks  will happen or when anything will happen but just the lack of transparency is very concerning
said jammes  a    year old mother of four
while xcel energy representatives have said the leaks did not affect local drinking water or pose a safety threat to residents  residents such as jammes
want more answers from the company
independent nuclear energy experts agree that the company should have been more transparent  but they say that based on reports from state and federal
agencies  they also do not think the leaks pose a health risk to residents or that the incidents will serve as a significant setback to efforts to promote
the carbon free power source in the us
 this leak  even though it was contained and poses no danger   according to the official reports   it should be used as some sort of wake up call   said
najmedin meshkati  an engineering professor who specializes in nuclear safety at the university of southern california
while some scientists see increasing nuclear energy as a crucial  safe way to reducing carbon emissions and increasing the country s energy independence
the disasters at the chernobyl  three mile island and fukushima nuclear power plants continue to cause fears of the power source
 nuclear is the only clean energy sector that has the capacity to  transition away from fossil fuels  on a large scale   said charlyne smith  a senior
nuclear energy analyst at the breakthrough institute  an energy thinktank   it is an industry that is highly scrutinized compared to other industries
and i think the nuclear regulatory commission does a really good job at ensuring that safety is something that is practiced in the industry
even though xcel did not announce the leak publicly  they notified the regulatory commission  which is a federal agency  and the state and in november
according to the minnesota pollution control agency  the company reported that about         gallons of water containing tritium leaked from a pipe at
the facility
the regulators concluded that the spill had not reached the mississippi river or contaminated drinking water sources near the plant
 while we immediately informed state and federal agencies  with no immediate safety risk  we focused on investigating the situation and containing the
affected water in concert with our regulatory agencies   kevin coss  an xcel energy spokesperson  stated in an email to the guardian   making the announcement
when we did allowed us to provide the public a more accurate and complete understanding of the leak and our plan to resolve it
smith said she agreed that the leak did not pose a significant safety risk but  learning about it months after really doesn t help the industry
after the announcement  xcel held two open houses about the leaks  the company also shut the plant down after discovering the second leak but said it
would reopen this week
jammes was among hundreds of people to attend the meetings  she and others said they were frustrated that there was no presentation about the leaks and
that company representatives just stood at tables and answered only some of attendees  questions
 it was just a quick question and answer sort of thing  like if you have questions  then we ll try to answer them  but it was very much  you re going
to hear what we want you to hear   jammes said
she wants to know why the pipe broke and what xcel will do to prevent such accidents
michael voll  a    year old warehouse associate  also criticized the company s approach at the meetings  he has lived in monticello for most his life
and said xcel  which opened the plant in       has benefited the local economy
 you didn t have to come from a nuclear submarine  you could go out there  and if your uncle or your dad worked there  you probably were going to get
a job   voll said
he also remains a supporter of nuclear energy and has never feared the plant
but after the leaks and the public meetings  he said his trust in xcel  is way down
xcel sent the pipe that leaked to an independent group  where experts are studying it to determine what caused it to fail  coss  the xcel spokesperson
stated   the results will help us understand whether there are other potential steps we need to take at the plant   he wrote
the company also will conduct a  thorough inspection  of the plant while it s offline for refueling this month  coss added  xcel  will work to maintain
the community s trust  coss wrote   by thoroughly cleaning up the leaked tritium and providing prompt updates if anything about the situation changes

REMOVED DUPLICATES
leaks  from  minnesota  nuclear  power  plant  raise  safety  fears  across  us  were  contained  and  posed  no  danger  official  reports  say  but
past  disasters  continue  to  cause  of  source  in  december  janica  jammes  started  a  microgreens  business  the  basement  her  home  big  lake
just  river  xcel  energy  s  monticello  at  least  once  each  day  she  uses  water  well  nourish  trays  delivers  product  customers  within  mile
radius  says  has  been  success  now  worries  that  could  be  contaminated  by  leak  about  gallons  radioactive  occurred  november  which  is  miles
north  west  minneapolis  moreover  upset  company  did  not  alert  public  until  march  then  detected  second  described  as  smaller  than  first
one  we  don  t  know  for  sure  if  side  effects  will  happen  or  when  anything  lack  transparency  very  concerning  said  year  old  mother
four  while  representatives  have  affect  local  drinking  pose  threat  residents  such  want  more  answers  independent  experts  agree  should
transparent  they  based  on  state  federal  agencies  also  do  think  health  risk  incidents  serve  significant  setback  efforts  promote  carbon
free  this  even  though  it  was  poses  according  used  some  sort  wake  up  call  najmedin  meshkati  an  engineering  professor  who  specializes
university  southern  california  scientists  see  increasing  crucial  safe  way  reducing  emissions  country  independence  chernobyl  three  island
fukushima  plants  only  clean  sector  capacity  transition  away  fossil  fuels  large  scale  charlyne  smith  senior  analyst  breakthrough  institute
thinktank  industry  highly  scrutinized  compared  other  industries  i  regulatory  commission  does  really  good  job  ensuring  something  practiced
announce  publicly  notified  agency  pollution  control  reported  containing  tritium  leaked  pipe  facility  regulators  concluded  spill  had  reached
mississippi  sources  near  immediately  informed  with  immediate  focused  investigating  situation  affected  concert  our  kevin  coss  spokesperson
stated  email  guardian  making  announcement  allowed  provide  accurate  complete  understanding  plan  resolve  agreed  learning  months  after  doesn
help  held  two  open  houses  shut  down  discovering  would  reopen  week  among  hundreds  people  attend  meetings  others  frustrated  there  presentation
stood  tables  answered  attendees  questions  quick  question  answer  thing  like  you  ll  try  them  much  re  going  hear  what  wants  why  broke
prevent  accidents  michael  voll  warehouse  associate  criticized  approach  he  lived  most  his  life  opened  benefited  economy  didn  come  submarine
go  out  your  uncle  dad  worked  probably  get  remains  supporter  never  feared  trust  sent  group  where  are  studying  determine  caused  fail
results  understand  whether  potential  steps  need  take  wrote  conduct  thorough  inspection  offline  refueling  month  added  work  maintain  community
thoroughly  cleaning  providing  prompt  updates  changes