ARTICLE 1 (BEFORE FORMATTING)

Atomic Hope review – a powerful case for pressing the nuclear power button
It’s not the first doc to herald the eco-nuclear movement but, even so, this is still a convincing argument in favour of the long-tabooed energy source
Here is a film that returns us to a thorny revisionist subject which I haven’t seen aired in documentary form since the film Pandora’s Promise in 2013
– which isn’t mentioned here, though a poster for it is visible in one shot. For many environmentalists, the last realistic hope we have to avert climate
disaster is the great unthinkable, the great unmentionable: stop worrying and learn to love nuclear energy, because nuclear is a colossally efficient
and very clean energy source.
Like Pandora’s Promise, Atomic Hope revisits the case studies of Chornobyl and Fukushima and argues that, although clearly catastrophic, a mythology of
horror has grown up around these events that has stymied all debate and shut down thought. The film doesn’t say so, but another way the eco-nuclear movement
became tainted was perhaps a speech by Margaret Thatcher to the UN general assembly which made the case in 1989, partly to undermine the coal industry
as a trade union powerbase.
At any rate, here again is the argument: nuclear energy provides the clean, climate-friendly energy we need. Renewables such as wind and solar are important,
but progress on them is desperately slow and time is running out. The risks of nuclear are real, but they are misunderstood and uncontextualised, safety
measures have evolved and risk must in any case now be considered in the light of clear and present danger of the global harm from fossil fuels.
But none of this is easy. Generations have been brought up on the idea that nuclear equals apocalypse. Convincing them of the opposite is a challenge.
Guardian readers will know that George Monbiot has ventilated ideas on this issue. The inevitable question is: what does Greta think? This film was apparently
made too late to include Thunberg’s startling intervention in October 2022, when she claimed the German government was wrong to close down nuclear plants
in favour of coal. Anything that stimulates discussion of this issue is to be welcomed.

LOWERCASE

atomic hope review – a powerful case for pressing the nuclear power button
it’s not the first doc to herald the eco-nuclear movement but, even so, this is still a convincing argument in favour of the long-tabooed energy source
here is a film that returns us to a thorny revisionist subject which i haven’t seen aired in documentary form since the film pandora’s promise in 2013
– which isn’t mentioned here, though a poster for it is visible in one shot. for many environmentalists, the last realistic hope we have to avert climate
disaster is the great unthinkable, the great unmentionable: stop worrying and learn to love nuclear energy, because nuclear is a colossally efficient
and very clean energy source.
like pandora’s promise, atomic hope revisits the case studies of chornobyl and fukushima and argues that, although clearly catastrophic, a mythology of
horror has grown up around these events that has stymied all debate and shut down thought. the film doesn’t say so, but another way the eco-nuclear movement
became tainted was perhaps a speech by margaret thatcher to the un general assembly which made the case in 1989, partly to undermine the coal industry
as a trade union powerbase.
at any rate, here again is the argument: nuclear energy provides the clean, climate-friendly energy we need. renewables such as wind and solar are important,
but progress on them is desperately slow and time is running out. the risks of nuclear are real, but they are misunderstood and uncontextualised, safety
measures have evolved and risk must in any case now be considered in the light of clear and present danger of the global harm from fossil fuels.
but none of this is easy. generations have been brought up on the idea that nuclear equals apocalypse. convincing them of the opposite is a challenge.
guardian readers will know that george monbiot has ventilated ideas on this issue. the inevitable question is: what does greta think? this film was apparently
made too late to include thunberg’s startling intervention in october 2022, when she claimed the german government was wrong to close down nuclear plants
in favour of coal. anything that stimulates discussion of this issue is to be welcomed.

TOKENIZED

atomic hope review   a powerful case for pressing the nuclear power button
it s not the first doc to herald the eco nuclear movement but  even so  this is still a convincing argument in favour of the long tabooed energy source
here is a film that returns us to a thorny revisionist subject which i haven t seen aired in documentary form since the film pandora s promise in
  which isn t mentioned here  though a poster for it is visible in one shot  for many environmentalists  the last realistic hope we have to avert climate
disaster is the great unthinkable  the great unmentionable  stop worrying and learn to love nuclear energy  because nuclear is a colossally efficient
and very clean energy source
like pandora s promise  atomic hope revisits the case studies of chornobyl and fukushima and argues that  although clearly catastrophic  a mythology of
horror has grown up around these events that has stymied all debate and shut down thought  the film doesn t say so  but another way the eco nuclear movement
became tainted was perhaps a speech by margaret thatcher to the un general assembly which made the case in       partly to undermine the coal industry
as a trade union powerbase
at any rate  here again is the argument  nuclear energy provides the clean  climate friendly energy we need  renewables such as wind and solar are important
but progress on them is desperately slow and time is running out  the risks of nuclear are real  but they are misunderstood and uncontextualised  safety
measures have evolved and risk must in any case now be considered in the light of clear and present danger of the global harm from fossil fuels
but none of this is easy  generations have been brought up on the idea that nuclear equals apocalypse  convincing them of the opposite is a challenge
guardian readers will know that george monbiot has ventilated ideas on this issue  the inevitable question is  what does greta think  this film was apparently
made too late to include thunberg s startling intervention in october       when she claimed the german government was wrong to close down nuclear plants
in favour of coal  anything that stimulates discussion of this issue is to be welcomed
